# Educational VR Rhythm Puzzle Game Vibe-Coded in Claude on Marble AI-made Gaussian Splat World Model

## Demo video

[Watch on YouTube](https://youtu.be/_UVaF3myZC0). Game audio didn't get recorded in MacOS screen recording, so leaving that to your imagination.

## Overview

The goal of this game is to train people to differentiate beats by BPM. There are three groups of flowers here. Each group "beats" at a particular rate. When activated, the flower plays a loop at that rate once and its orb blinks at that BPM. If another flower is activated during that playback, it plays after the current one, and both play together. If the BPMs match, another flower can be added to the group during that time; otherwise, the player starts over.
 
The goal of this level is to train people to differentiate beats by BPM. There are three groups of flowers here. Each group "beats" at a particular rate. When activated, the flower plays a loop at that rate once and its orb blinks at that BPM. If another flower is activated during that playback, it plays after the current one, and both play together. If the BPMs match, another flower can be added to the group during that time; otherwise, the player starts over.
 
Once the entire group is activated, the selection orbs turn green, and those flowers are no longer interactive.

The level doesn't tell the player what the goal is, leaving them to figure out that what allows them to proceed is matching BPMs. Further levels can be added based on harmony, and adding the challenge of optimizing the order in which the group is activated (if there's not enough time to physically get to all flowers in the group in arbitrary order because of space geometry).

The player can brute-force the level by testing all flowers against a single one and seeing which play together well. However, the loop plays twice each time, forcing them to wait longer. If they listen to each flower once and figure out which ones match just by listening, they can collect the groups without time penalty. (The time penalty, fail count limit, point scoring, etc. can be trivially added to encourage listening instead of brute-forcing).

## Technical details

The level geometry is a Gaussian Splat obtained from a world model generated with  @WorldLabsAI  Marble from a picture generated by Gemini (inspired by Buckminster Fuller's Dymaxion house architecture), and automatically segmented with Nigel Hartman's Splat Analyzer. 

The audio loops, as well as this voiceover, were generated by Claude.

The source code was 100% vibe-coded with Claude based on SensAI WebXR World Model template (built on Meta's IWER  + SparkJS for gaussian splats) during the SenAI Hack hackathon by  @XRBootcamp   / SensAI Hackademy.

The only thing made by a human in this project were prompts to various AIs (Gemini, WorldLabs, Claude), as well as this document (I enjoy writing text much more than writing prompts).

## Claude transcript

See `claude/` subdirectory with the complete Claude transcript for this project.

In prompts, I have avoided giving any specific directions on the code itself, to the extent that this process could be replicated by someone not familiar with programming.

The closest I've come to coding was explicitly describing the state machine and transitions for the game mechanic, because Claude kept messing it up. I believe this could be avoided by explicitly asking Claude to generate a finite state machine, and then coding it in. 

The JS implementation of the state machine is a bit too spaghetti-coded to my taste (transition graph is hardcoded in if-else noodle soup), but it's OK for the scope. 


Links:

1. [SensAI Hack](https://sensaihack.notion.site)

2. [WebXR World Models template](https://github.com/V4C38/sensai-webxr-worldmodels)

3. [Splat Analyzer](https://github.com/nigelhartman/splat_analyzer)
